---
title: FAQ about Cookies and Session
confluence_url: https://outsystemsrd.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/RCP/pages/3073703974/FAQ+about+Cookies+and+Session
confluence_space: RCP
confluence_page_id: 3073703974
last_synced: 2026-04-09
owner: Process Engineering
---

# FAQ about Cookies and Session

This document contains a list of frequently asked questions regarding the way our product deals with cookies and session cookies. It should provide answers to most questions that we get asked.

**This document is restricted and cannot be shared directly with the customer!**
## What are session related cookies and how they are used?
The main cookies related with the session are:

- 
The cookie &quot;ASP.NET_SessionId&quot; (**.NET session cookie**) is auto-generated by .NET in case it doesn't exist, and transmitted to the response so subsequent requests can be identified as the same session. The path location of the cookie needs to be &quot;/&quot;&nbsp; so that all modules can share the same session. Since the *ASP.NET_SessionId* cookie is the same for all modules in a factory and the browser sends it, all modules receive the same value regardless of the user provider configuration, this separation is done explicitly on the applications. E.g. We have three applications, two of them using the user provider A, and other using the User provider B. All applications use the same cookie value, but only the two applications using the same user provider share the session.

- 
The cookie &quot;&lt;user provider name&gt;&quot; (**persistent login cookie**) is used for auto-login mechanism, which looks for persistent login information on the request cookies and validates those cookies against values stored on the platform database. If a cookie is present and valid, there will be an automatic login for the user retrieved from cookies.

- 
The cookie &quot;&lt;user provider name&gt;.Sid&quot; (**session fixation cookie**) is used to avoid session fixation issues. It saves a random number generated after a login, which is also stored in the session database. When a request reaches the server the session information is loaded from the database, access is marked on the database that there is a lock on that session, and the session fixation protection is validated.

For mobile devices, mobile session related cookies are also used.
## Where can I find documentation about Session?
There is a good documentation about Session, deeping in the following topics:

- 
Persistent Session.

- 
Mobile Session.

- 
[Session Serialization/Deserialization](https://outsystemsrd.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/RKB/pages/473104677/Session+Serialization+Deserialization)

- 
Session Fixation Protection

## Can the path and the SameSite of the &quot;ASP.NET_SessionId&quot; cookie be changed?
Changing path of &quot;ASP.NET_SessionId&quot; is not an issue as long as there are not any other applications under the same application server that do not belong to the OutSystems Platform. Considering this, OutSystems Cloud customers cannot change that path.

We currently allow changing the SimeSite value on built-in cookies to be None or to use the &quot;Browser Default&quot;. This configuration can be done in Lifetime. For the time being, &quot;Browser Default&quot; means it is Lax for Chromium based browsers (Chrome and Edge) and None for the rest. 

Currently we don't allow choosing Lax on this option, because when this feature was added, in a revision patch to response to the&nbsp;[Google Chrome changes](https://success.outsystems.com/Support/Enterprise_Customers/Maintenance_and_Operations/Upcoming_changes_in_cookie_handling_in_Google_Chrome). As a risk assessment decision, it was decided to wait for the supported browsers to commit on the direction of those changes. **We do still have plans to revisit this decision and to make Lax available** ([RPM-2376](https://outsystemsrd.atlassian.net/browse/RPM-2376)). Note that even the Lax option has consequences and some flows on application design stop working. 

You can find related information on the [SameSite Cookies Threat Model](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XViewRB_DcKRmytd6T5ppaeBkglHKrxRA3gugvMvhHI).
## Why the SameSite of the &quot;ASP.NET_SessionId&quot; cookie can not be changed to Strict?
The platform is not using the SameSite value = Strict for &quot;ASP.NET_SessionId&quot; cookie because according to the&nbsp;[official documentation](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie/SameSite), using Strict value &quot;Cookies will only be sent in a first-party context and not be sent along with requests initiated by third party websites&quot;.

That means that, an external application (e.g. Google) has a link to the application and redirects the user there, in that navigation **the browser will not send any Strict cookies causing the user to always lose his current session** when this navigation happens. The Strict option is very aggressive and it does make sense to use it for tracking/marketing related cookies that the platform does not create by default. In the&nbsp;[SetCookie](https://success.outsystems.com/Documentation/11/Reference/OutSystems_APIs/HTTPRequestHandler_API#SetCookie)&nbsp;function that can be used by OutSystems developers to create custom cookies, those allow to set any path and SameSite value.

You can find related information on the [SameSite Cookies Threat Model](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XViewRB_DcKRmytd6T5ppaeBkglHKrxRA3gugvMvhHI).
## What are the known errors related with cookies?
Here you can find al list with the known errors and vulnerabilities that are related with cookies:

- 
Duplicated Session Cookies in the response headers 

- 
Same site cookies on SAML Authentication 

- 
Invalid Permissions error for valid users when Single Sign On Between App Types is enabled 

- 
Session Fixation protection not working on first requests 

- 
[Session Fixation Vulnerability](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-F0xVGnImwHGqUXrC-Ab7claGhFB83odBL12NdIxT90/edit#)

- 
Session Cookie is lost after logging-in 

- 
Cookie nr2Users storing the users' username in plaintext is flagged as a vulnerability 

## Cookies security
Some of the cookies security is not enabled by default, but can be easily enabled by following these steps:

- 
Service Center 

- 
Administration

- 
Security

- 
Enable one of these checkboxes:

- 
Enable HTTP Strict Transport Security (HSTS)

- 
Force HTTPS for screens in Web Applications

- 
Enable the Cookies Secure checkbox

- 
Save

- 
Apply settings

For more information on securing cookies check: [https://success.outsystems.com/Documentation/11/Developing_an_Application/Secure_the_Application/Enable_secure_session_cookies_and_set_application_cookies_as_secure](https://success.outsystems.com/Documentation/11/Developing_an_Application/Secure_the_Application/Enable_secure_session_cookies_and_set_application_cookies_as_secure)

*Note that securing some of the cookies doesn&rsquo;t work on the Users module.
## Extending the OutSystems built-in cookies information
**Cookie name**

**Applies to**

**Is it used on Platform or Extended Product?**

**Can it carry sensitive information?**

**Can it carry PII (Personally identifiable information)?**

**Traditional **

**Reactive **

**Mobile**

ASP.NET_SessionId (.NET) / OSSESSIONID (Java)

True

False

False

Platform

No

Yes

osVisitor

True

True

True

Platform

No

No

osVisit

True

True

True

Platform

No

No

pageLoadedFromBrowserCache

True

False

False

Platform: System Components

No

No

&lt;User Provider Name&gt;

True

False

False

Platform

No

No

&lt;User Provider Name&gt;.sid

True

False

False

Platform

No

No

nr1&lt;User Provider Name&gt;

False

True 

True 

Platform

No

No

nr2&lt;User Provider Name&gt;

False

True

True

Platform

No

No

DEVICE_ORIENTATION

False

*It may appear in Users application and on some versions of OutSystems UI.

False

False

Extended Product: OutSystems UI

No

No

DEVICES_TYPE

False

*It may appear in Users application and on some versions of OutSystems UI.

False

False

Extended Product: OutSystems UI

No

No

DEVICE_BROWSER

False

*It may appear in Users application and on some versions of OutSystems UI.

False

False

Extended Product: OutSystems UI

No

No

DEVICE_OS

False

*It may appear in Users application and on some versions of OutSystems UI.

False

False

Extended Product: OutSystems UI

No

No

RT.

This cookie is designed to work with domains and subdomains.

True.
It comes from the performance monitor JS. And performance monitor is what gathers analytics for lifetime. LT analytics does not apply to mobile and reactive.

False

False

Extended Product: OutSystems UI (LifeTime analytics)

No

No
## Which are the OutSystems built-in cookies?
[This public documentation](https://success.outsystems.com/Support/Enterprise_Customers/Maintenance_and_Operations/Cookie_usage_in_OutSystems_applications) describes the cookies used by OutSystems platform.