---
title: Incident Response Process
confluence_url: https://outsystemsrd.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/RKB/pages/4977361294/Incident+Response+Process
confluence_space: RKB
confluence_page_id: 4977361294
last_synced: 2026-04-09
owner: Process Engineering
---

# Incident Response Process

**Version Control - **Current Version - 9.0 /  Release Date - 

Please read the **Process Release Notes** page to check what will change. 

**Table of Contents**
13falsecirclelisttrue# High-Level Process
Depending on the [**impact of the incident** ](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Jmq3wt9EDX4u0Nkam1mZBYdqOqaWNn74aA54OIGUk0o/edit?gid=1035914520#gid=1035914520)and the [**source**](https://outsystemsrd.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/EEO/pages/edit-v2/4906614957#Sources%3A) that triggers the incident, different scenarios will be considered, and differences between them will be highlighted in each playbook section.

#### **Impact of the Incident:**
- 
**Incidents with System-wide Impact - **1 or more region(s) partially (&gt;1 tenant) or fully affected or the potential to escalate to these proportions. This causes an impact on developers and/or end-users.

- 
**Incidents without System-wide Impact - **A specific issue contained to 1 tenant. With partial or full disruption to developers and/or end-users.

#### **Sources:**
- 
Incidents **reported by Customers** through the Support portal

- 
Incidents generated by** System-wide SLO burndown** 

- 
Incidents generated by **Service-Specific SLO burndown**

**Incident Response Scenarios**

Please follow the playbook [here](https://outsystemsrd.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/EEO/pages/edit-v2/4906614957#Incident-Response-Scenarios) to know how to handle each scenario.

**Scenario**

**Description**

**Playbook**

**SCENARIO 1**

**Incident without system-wide impact**

SCENARIO 1 - Incident without system-wide impact 

**SCENARIO 2**

**Incident with system-wide impact**

SCENARIO 2 - Incident with system-wide impact 

**SCENARIO 3**

**Incident with late detection of system-wide impact **

Incident was reported without system-wide impact but during troubleshooting, the risk of system-wide impact increases. This could happen due to another customer reporting an incident with similar symptoms or through an SLO burndown event. 

SCENARIO 3 - Incident with late detection of system-wide impact 

# Roles &amp; Responsibilities
**Incident Commander: **Leads the incident response

- 
Identify and involve technical stakeholders

- 
Coordinate the incident response process, providing direction to all involved

- 
Set a status update cadence with the SMEs executing **troubleshooting operations** and track it

- 
Define and update the incident response plan, delegating tasks to the most appropriate person/group

**Internal Communications Leader: **Managing the flow of information to all internal stakeholders, ensuring clarity and consistency.

- 
Review and publish the initial internal communication to outside Product  group

- 
Set cadence and provide a status update to all stakeholders

- 
Shield the Incident Response team from outside inputs, ensuring focus on incident resolution

**Retrospective Commander: **Leads the Root Cause Analysis until completion

- 
Coordinate the execution of Retrospective

- 
Ensure Retrospective is peer-reviewed and approved

**Scenario**

**Description**

**Role**

**Actor**

**SCENARIO 1**

Incident without system-wide impact

Incident Commander

Dev Teams / Engineer On Call

Communication Lead

Dev Teams / Engineer On Call

Retrospective Commander

Dev Teams

**SCENARIO 2**

Incident with system-wide impact  

Incident Commander

SRE Team / SRE On Call

Communication Lead

Global Support Service Controllers

Retrospective Commander

SRE Team

**SCENARIO 3**

Incident reported by customers with late detection of system-wide impact 

Incident Commander

SRE Team / SRE On Call

Communication Lead

Global Support Service Controllers

Retrospective Commander

SRE Team

# Jira Workflow for Incident Recovery
Jira Incidents are the single source of truth regarding Incident Response. The issues should contain all the information needed for traceability purposes&mdash;decisions made, steps taken to troubleshoot, people involved in incident recovery, and recovery steps.
:neo_incident:c874a4d1-0a22-4127-8417-0ca22ff5796b:neo_incident:#FFFAE6
**EVERY INCIDENT SHOULD HAVE A Jira ISSUE created - automatically (preferable) or manually. **

### How to create an incident manually 
Use the following form to create an Incident on the ODC R&amp;D Incidents Jira project.

- 
The initial Status of the incident is Backlog   

The incident must be handled as a regular incident, abiding by the same rules described in the section 
[https://outsystemsrd.atlassian.net/jira/software/c/projects/RDINC/forms/form/direct/259426148991099/10600](https://outsystemsrd.atlassian.net/jira/software/c/projects/RDINC/forms/form/direct/259426148991099/10600)
note238f1ed1-980b-458b-b34f-a9f0541aa84c
**Learn more about the ODC Incident workflow and statuses here:**

** **What does an ODC Incident look like in Jira?**  **

**Learn more about the ODC Incident workflow and statuses here:**

▶️** **[What does an ODC Incident look like in Jira?](/wiki/spaces/EEO/pages/4684710080/What+does+an+ODC+Incident+look+like+in+Jira)**  **

### Traceability of Recovery Measures
Recovery measures must be linked to the RDINC Jira issue using the **Linked Issues** Jira capability* &ldquo;is blocked by&rdquo;*.

Additionally, other recovery measures such as bugs can be reported and used as a recovery mechanism, if included on the SDLC pipeline and propagated through the rings.

Check how a Jira Incident looks like here

# Communicate with Global Support
The Development Teams should provide regular updates to Global Support to ease their job of managing customer expectations. If extra information is needed from the customer, Development Teams must engage with Global Support Agents to get the required information.

**After requesting** information from Global Support:
:raised_back_of_hand:1f91a🤚#B3F5FF
**MANUAL TASK - Status Progression**

The Incident should be moved from TROUBLESHOOTING in ProgressBlue to Waiting for Customer.

Once the **customer replied**, Global Support will analyze the information provided and will reach out to the Development Teams again to proceed with troubleshooting.
:arrows_counterclockwise:1f504🔄#B3F5FF
**AUTOMATIC TASK - Status Progression**

When the customer replied, the status of the incident will change from Waiting for Customer  to Troubleshooting in progressBlue.

There are two methods to engage with Global Support, both using **Jira Zendesk Integration**:

**(1) Add Comment to all linked tickets** button on the **Zendesk Support** panel on the right side of the Incident

**(2)** Using **Zendesk Support** on the **Activity Tab** at the bottom of the Incident

Read here how to **communicate with Global Support through the Incident Slack Channel**: Get to know Rootly 

#### **WARNING - Please Read Me**:rotating_light:1f6a8🚨#FFEBE6
**READ ME**

Since Global Support is responsible for communicating directly with customers, the Assignee must be extra careful and ** NOT** **ACTIVATE** the **&ldquo;Send as a Public Reply&rdquo;** flag.

Messages written with this option checked **will be sent directly to customers** and, by doing so, **sensitive and confidential information might be shared with customers.**

# ODC Incidents Severities
Severity Levels are based on the impact of a given issue on the **customer&rsquo;s business.**

- 
On **Customer reported** incidents, severity is provided by the customer when reporting the issue through the Support Portal. The severity then could be reassessed by the Global Support Team before the incident is handed over to R&amp;D. There&rsquo;s a 1:1 mapping between the severity name at Global Support and R&amp;D.

- 
On **other incident types** - as monitoring and ring promotion failures, severity is set based on key factors that are gathered and analyzed by the incident response team. These may include:

- 
Production or Non-prod type of incidents;

- 
Nature of the incident (e.g. service compromised availability, security-related);

- 
Impact of the incident on customers' use of the service;

- 
Status of the incident (e.g. whether the incident is isolated, continuing, or contained);

Please note that we should always consider the SLOs to define unavailability and slowness. The 1CP and authentication use cases are shown as examples for core user journeys, the others should follow a similar pattern.

Below is a table with some **guidelines **that should help define the Severity of Incidents. However, some critical sense is always expected from those who do it. For example, if the impact of the issue on the customer is not immediate, but there is a high risk of Customer Incidents in the near future, then increasing the severity of the problem must be considered.

Severity

Description

**Time to Repair **
**(Objective)**

SEVERITY 1Red
**Urgent**
(*highest*)

**&ldquo;Business cannot operate&rdquo;**

Indicates a complete loss of service or a critical system failure, usually affecting many (e.g. one region) or all customers, that must be mitigated immediately (all hands on deck). It does not include development issues other than unavailability or problems in non-production runtimes. Examples:

- 
Authentication unavailable (based on SLO burn rate)

- 
1CP unavailable in a region (based on SLO burn rate)

- 
Runtime production stage unavailable or data corruption

Less than 30 minutes

SEVERITY 2Yellow
**High**

**&ldquo;Important functionality is impaired&quot;**

Indicates a significant problem that impacts a portion of the service or system functionality, and there is no workaround available. Customer productivity is severely impacted. Usually affects a small subset of customers (one or some in a given region). This level of severity often requires urgent attention. Examples:

- 
1CP unavailable for a customer due to a platform error issue

- 
1CP slow in a region (based on SLO burn rate)

- 
Authentication is slow (latency SLO depleted)

- 
Authentication fails intermittently (availability SLO depleted)

- 
Runtime non-production stages unavailable or data corruption. Prevents testing/development of apps with no workaround

Less than 8 hours

SEVERITY 3Blue 
**Normal**

**&quot;Operational efficiency is impacted&quot;**

Indicates a non-critical issue that may cause inconvenience or degradation of service but does not require immediate action. May or may not have a (temporary) workaround. Usually affects non-core user journeys. Examples:

- 
1CP slow for a given customer

- 
1CP failing for a particular code pattern, with workaround available

- 
Runtime non-production stages unavailable or data corruption for a specific pattern, with workaround available

- 
Preview or Edit data not working

- 
Promote is slow (latency SLO depleted)

- 
Session is logging out too frequently

Less than 2 weeks

SEVERITY 4 
**Low**
(*lowest*)

**&quot;Minor issue with no business impact&quot;**

Indicates minor issues or warnings that do not impact service functionality significantly. These may be logged for future investigation but typically do not require immediate attention. Workarounds are available. Examples:

- 
One particular code pattern is not behaving according to expectation

- 
Documentation is missing or wrong

Less than 4 weeks

If the severity level of an Incident escalated to R&amp;D needs adjustment, prior alignment between Global Support and R&amp;D is required. This ensures that Global Support agents can also properly manage customer expectations while safeguarding the severities defined in Support terms and service level agreements.