---
title: Scope & Narrative
confluence_url: https://outsystemsrd.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/RKB/pages/3818588348/Scope+Narrative
confluence_space: RKB
confluence_page_id: 3818588348
last_synced: 2026-04-09
owner: Process Engineering
---

# Scope & Narrative

**Version Control - **Current Version - 1.0 / Release Date -   

Next Release Planned - TBD

**Table of Contents**

Change Management in ODC follows an industry-standard approach (ITIL-like) where Changes are categorized according to their risk levels into 3 categories:

- 
**Standard** *[pre-approved]*: Changes that may be performed without explicit approval for each execution. Instead, approval is obtained for the addition of the Change to a catalog, becoming available for execution from that moment;

- 
**Normal**: Changes that require approval from a Change Advisory Board (CAB) for every execution. These may be typified and exist in a catalog, or be unique and detailed when execution is needed;

- 
**Emergency**: Changes that require approval from a CAB but, due to the urgency of its execution, need to be performed in a timeline incompatible with waiting for the regular CAB meeting. In this case, approval is given verbally, and all the documentation needed for a Normal change, plus the justification for its emergency status and mitigations to avoid needing it again&nbsp;

For SOC2 type 2 compliance, OutSystems has identified some areas that require additional controls on top of the existing software development best practices in place. Those areas compose the infrastructure that is directly used to provide the OutSystems cloud services to customers. This infrastructure is architecturally organized in groups designated as Rings. For more details on the structure of assets and code deployment in ODC, refer to the ODC SLDC CICD Procedure.

For Change Management purposes, combining the need for Changes with the service provided to customers, the following are the key assets where Change Management must be practiced:
- 
Code (deployed by OutSystems) running in assets belonging to a Ring.

- 
Code (deployed by OutSystems) that performs changes to assets belonging to a Ring.

- 
Human activities that perform changes in assets belonging to a Ring.

## What is the approach to achieve SOC 2 Compliance for ODC in Change Management?
- 
As much as possible, we want **LOW-RISK **Change to be done in a **Standard *****[pre-approved]***** **fashion.
- 
**For code deployments**, this means:
- 
teams using[ SDLC pipeline](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bR2HP2FMEDW7BYecdADeKkVYZc7SFXq_dzdOuW6RbLg/edit#heading=h.98ecttweohwt) or a flavor of it approved by the Release Management team (e.g. Low-code, etc) go Standard.

- 
teams** **not using a pipeline or using one not approved by Release Management need a [Change Catalog](https://outsystemsrd.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/EEO/pages/3798631729/TEMPLATE+Change+Catalog) and go through a CAB Process** to be able to deploy from Oct 31 onwards**;

- 
**ALL** **HIGH-RISK Changes** are done in a **Normal *****[CAB-approved]*** fashion.
This can include breaking changes, changes that can't be rolled back, changes where previous attempts caused an incident, etc.
- 
**For direct manipulation of assets**, this means:
- 
having a [Change Catalog](https://outsystemsrd.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/EEO/pages/3798631729/TEMPLATE+Change+Catalog), so that the low-risk ones can be *Standard *(e.g. frequently performed activities, including troubleshooting).

 **Oct 27**: ALL Teams who perform Changes that fall under 1.a.ii. and 2. are requested to have their [Change Catalog](https://outsystemsrd.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/EEO/pages/3798631729/TEMPLATE+Change+Catalog) ready no later than Oct 27.

 **Oct 30 - Nov 19** teams should allocate time to complete training on Change Management (more details will be later shared).

## Scope clarification
- 
**Service Studio / ODC Studio / etc. [client tools] don't need to be within scope***** to have ODC certified***. The narrative is: *ODC Studio is a client tool that runs in the developer's workstation to generate low-code. Protection to the service (as required by SOC2) is given when that low-code is transformed for execution on the server-side, and that transformation is within SOC2's* *scope*.

Other important parts of SOC2 scope needs:

- 
**MABS**: ***out of SOC2 scope **[we don't need to certify it to have ODC certified]*. 
It is a tool that generates code that runs on end-user cellphones, so it is not in scope of ODC. The code that runs in servers is generated by the ODC compiler, and that one is within scope.

- 
**AI Mentor Studio** ***O11***: ***out of SOC2 scope** [we don't need to certify it to have ODC certified]*. 
Runs separately from AIMS ODC. *Note that **AIMS ODC is within scope** - details in a later thread.*

**BUT**

- 
**Built-in components** (e.g. RichWidgets): ***must be in SOC2 scope**. *
By being low-code that it's OutSystems that builds &amp; deploys to the tenant, we need to ensure all the SOC2 protections. The metaphor of the car's emergency tire: if it comes with the car, it's the manufacturer who has to ensure it abides by road laws; if it's the owner that buys it separately, it's the owners' responsibility.

Please ensure you have an ***explicit decision ***on whether an asset is within or outside the scope of ODC SOC2 Compliance. 

This action will prevent last minute needs, in case the asset is within scope and save you from unnecessary work, in case the asset is outside scope.