---
title: What does an ODC CD Failure look like in Jira?
confluence_url: https://outsystemsrd.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/RKB/pages/5445713947/What+does+an+ODC+CD+Failure+look+like+in+Jira
confluence_space: RKB
confluence_page_id: 5445713947
last_synced: 2026-04-09
owner: Process Engineering
---

# What does an ODC CD Failure look like in Jira?

none## Jira issue type and Workflow
Failure Management in ODC is handled in a dedicated Jira project, [**RDODCF - ODC CD Failures**](https://outsystemsrd.atlassian.net/browse/RDODCF). This project will utilize a single issue type: ***Failure*****.**
Each **deployment failure **will be automatically created by **Pegasus**, generating a ***Failure ***issue, and will outline the type of error and the Pegasus step where the event occurred with a troubleshooting guide.

### Jira Statuses and Workflow

RDODCF - Jira Project Wokflow

**Jira Status**

**Description**

backlog

The process begins with the automatic creation of a **new Jira issue (*****Failure*****) **in the [ODC CD Failures](https://outsystemsrd.atlassian.net/browse/RDODCF) project.

troubleshooting in progressBlue

The ***Failure *****is being investigated** by an R&amp;D team member.

solvedGreen  

The team has **identified the root cause** and completed one of the following actions:

- 
**Issue Fully Resolved:** The issue has been mitigated and completely fixed.

- 
**Mitigated with Follow-up:** The issue has been mitigated, and relevant follow-up **action items have been created and linked **to the *Failure *to ensure a permanent fix. (e.g., opening a dedicated bug ticket, escalating the issue to the owning team of the root cause asset, etc.).
See What does an ODC CD Failure look like in Jira?.

### Jira Issue Fields
On each *Failure *issue, we can distinguish 4 main sections:

The one on the right-hand side, with** **the ***Details*** Tab, the one on the left-hand side, with the main tabs - ***Failure Information*** and ***Troubleshooting*** tabs, and the bottom area, ***Action Items***.

***Details **and **Failure Information***** **tabs provide general information about the *Failure*.

***Troubleshooting ***tab can help us to classify the failure, based on impacted assets and potential root cause.

***Action Items*** area tracks all actions taken during troubleshooting or while fixing the failure.

 ***Maintenance &amp; Operations ***is a tab exclusively used by the team maintaining the Jira Project for process troubleshooting purposes. No fields must be manually edited by the teams executing the process without consulting [https://outsystemsrd.atlassian.net/people/team/b3750437-12b9-468f-bdc4-57ece5994dc5](https://outsystemsrd.atlassian.net/people/team/b3750437-12b9-468f-bdc4-57ece5994dc5) (  ).

#### Details Tab
***Details *****tab**

**Field**

**Description**

**Observations**

**Summary ***

A title that represents the Failure.

Always mandatory.

Automatically generated by Pegasus on issue creation.

**Assignee**

Person that is currently responsible for the issue.

Mandatory when moving from backlog to Troubleshooting in ProgressBlue.

**Reporter**

The person/entity responsible for creating the issue. 

As these issues are created automatically, &lsquo;RD Integrations&rsquo; is usually used.

**Teams**

The team(s) that is/are currently responsible for the issue.

It is automatically populated upon issue creation by Pegasus:

- 
If the responsible team can be determined, the issue is **automatically assigned to that team** using an integration between Backstage and EOM, taking into consideration the team that owns the deployment system and deployment unit that the asset belongs to.

- 
If the responsible team cannot be immediately identified, the issue is **assigned to the Release Engineering Alpha team**. This team is then responsible for analyzing the issue and reassigning it to the correct team owner.

After initial analysis, the responsible team assignment can be updated for two reasons:
- 
Adding Teams: More teams need to be involved in the investigation.

- 
Assignment Correction: The initial automatic assignment was incorrect.

If the assignment was incorrect (case #2 above), please alert the Release Engineering Alpha team so they can investigate and correct the automation logic if needed.

**Labels**

Several labels are automatically generated and applied to the Jira issue upon creation. 
These labels are crucial for rapidly identifying the **origin of the failure**, including:

- 
`created-by-pegasus` - for all the issues of type *Failure*

- 
`{du_name}` - the name of the Deployment Unit where the failure occurred [for example: &lsquo;ai-codesearch-service&rsquo;]

- 
`ring-{ring_name}` - the Ring where the failure occurred [for example: &lsquo;ring-ga&rsquo;]

- 
`product-line-{product_line` - the name of the Product Line where the failure occurred [for example:product-line-self-hosted]

- 
`{step}-{failure}` - where *step *can be any step in any lifecycle: deploy, revert, copy, system tests, ... and *failure *refers to the type of error: timeout or failed. Example:

- 
For system-tests step, label is formatted to `SystemTests-failed` or `SystemTests-timeout.`

**Priority**

Currently, all newly created issues are automatically assigned the ***Normal*** priority.

**Ring**

The ring where the Failure occurred.

Automatically filled by Pegasus on issue creation.

**Failure Type**

The type of the *Failure* (Timeout / Error).

Automatically filled by Pegasus on issue creation.

**DU**

The Deplyment Unit where the Failure occurred.

Automatically filled by Pegasus on issue creation.

**DUV**

The version of the Deployment Unit where the Failure occurred.

Automatically filled by Pegasus on issue creation.

**Deployment Step**

The step of the lifecycle where the Failure occurred.

Automatically filled by Pegasus on issue creation.

#### Failure Information Tab
***Failure Information***** tab**

**Field**

**Description**

**Observations**

**Description**

An explanation that clearly represents the Failure. It includes:

- 
the step of the process where the failure happened

- 
the deployment unit (DU) where the failure occurred

- 
a link to DU Global View dashboard

- 
a link to Flux Deployments dashboard, when the Pegasus step is either *deploy *or *revert*

- 
a link to Azure DevOps System Tests pipeline that caused the Failure, when the Pegasus step is *system tests *

Automatically filled by Pegasus on issue creation.

#### Troubleshooting Tab
***Troubleshooting *****tab**

**Field**

**Description**

**Observations**

**Impacted Asset(s)**

The asset(s) impacted by the *Failure.*

Multi-selection

**Root Cause Categorization**

Clustering of root causes. Possible values are:

- 
Own bug found

- 
Dependency timeout

- 
Dependency bug

- 
Infrastructure timeout

- 
Infrastructure bug

- 
Integration test bug

- 
Pegasus timeout

- 
Pegasus bug

- 
System test bug

- 
System test timeout

- 
External dependency

See more information [here](https://outsystemsrd.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/RKB/pages/5445713947/What+does+an+ODC+CD+Failure+look+like+in+Jira#Root-Cause-Categorization).

Mandatory when moving the issue from Troubleshooting in ProgressBlue to solvedGreen.

**Root Cause**

Use it to better describe the root cause.

### Root Cause **Categorization**
Use the definitions below to ensure consistent and accurate categorization of deployment failures.
note101547be-9e04-4228-8987-1fa33ba5e18e
For any failure not owned by your team (like ***Infrastructure** *or ***Dependencies)** ***you must report the issue **to the respective **owner team** (e.g., infrastructure issues to Platform Engineering; dependency issues to the relevant service owner teams) to ensure a permanent fix.

For any failure not owned by your team (like ***Infrastructure** *or ***Dependencies)** ***you must report the issue **to the respective **owner team** (e.g., infrastructure issues to Platform Engineering; dependency issues to the relevant service owner teams) to ensure a permanent fix.

- 
**Own Bug Found**: Use this when the deployment failed due to a bug in the code, logic, or configuration developed by your team.

- 
*Example:* A syntax error, a logic flaw in the service, or a missing environment variable in your Deployment Unit (DU) configuration.

- 
**Dependency Timeout**: The deployment or service tried to reach a dependency, but the connection timed out.
-- Please report the issue to the respective owner team.

- 
*Example:* n API call to an internal OutSystems service took longer than the defined threshold.

- 
**Dependency Bug**: The failure was caused by an issue in a component managed by another OutSystems team or internal shared library.
-- Please report the issue to the respective owner team.

- 
*Example:* *A regression in an upstream internal service returning a 500 error or an unauthorized response due to their internal logic*.

- 
**Infrastructure Timeout**: Resources took too long to provision or respond during the deployment.
-- Please report the issue to the respective owner team.

- 
*Example:* A database took too long to spin up, or a load balancer didn't become &quot;healthy&quot; within the expected timeframe.

- 
**Infrastructure Bug**: The issue lies in the configuration or orchestration of our infrastructure platform rather than the application code.
-- Please report the issue to the respective owner team.

- 
*Example:* Incorrect network routing, permission issues at the cloud provider level, or a faulty node in a cluster.

- 
**Integration Test Bug**: The deployment failed due to a bug in the integration test scripts, test data, or test environment setup.

- 
*Example:* Test assertion is incorrect, test data fixture is malformed, test environment misconfigured, timing issues, or temporary network instability causing a test to fail.

- 
**Pegasus Timeout**: The Pegasus orchestrator or a specific Pegasus deployment step timed out during execution.

- 
**Pegasus Bug**: The failure was caused by a direct error within the Pegasus platform/tooling itself.

- 
**System Test Bug: **The deployment failed due to an error within the system test scripts, test data, or the test environment configuration. 

- 
*Example:* An incorrect assertion in an automated end-to-end test or a misconfigured test data set.

- 
**System Test Timeout: **The system test suite or a specific test step failed to complete within the allocated time limit.

- 
*Example:* A complex end-to-end test scenario taking longer than the defined execution threshold.

- 
**External Dependency: **The failure is caused by an external service, platform, or third-party provider that is outside our organization&rsquo;s direct management or code control. This category is for &quot;vendor-level&quot; issues rather than internal team-to-team dependencies.

- 
 *Example:* AWS issues, GitHub issues, Azure issues.

## Traceability of Recovery Measures
**Recovery measures** must be linked to the *Failure *Jira issue using the **Linked Issues** Jira capability* *`&ldquo;is blocked by&rdquo;`.

Any **follow-up issues** must be linked to the *Failure *Jira issue using the **Linked Issues** Jira capability* *`&ldquo;is reviewed by&rdquo;`. 

&nbsp;
## Adding Failures to Team Jira Boards
To allow a team to see the *Failures *assigned to them on their **Team Jira Board**, the team board filter should be updated.

To do this, go to **&ldquo;Configure Board&rdquo;** on the team&rsquo;s board, then select **&ldquo;Edit filter query&rdquo;** to update the board filter. For example, add:`project = RDODCF AND Teams in (&ldquo;&lt;Team_Name&gt;&quot;).`